<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
	<title>jQuery</title>
	<style type="text/css">
		table {
			border: 2px solid black;
		}

		td {
			border : 1px solid grey;
		}
	</style>

	<script type="text/javascript" src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.3.1.min.js">
	</script>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="jQueryIntro.js"></script>
	

</head>
<body>

<h1>What is jQuery?</h1>

<p>jQuery is a JavsScript library that makes our lives easier. It helps us do things like selecting elements, manipulatings elements, changing styles, adding event handlers, animating things</p>

<p>The point of jQuery is that it helps us do things faster.</p>

<h1>What is a JavaScript Library</h1>

<p>The concept of a library is one that exists in other programming languages. The idea is that we can take code that someone else wrote and we can add it to our own project. It can do a lot of the following methods:
	<ul>
		<li>Select Elements</li>
		<li>Manipulate Elements</li>
		<li>Create Elements</li>
		<li>Add Event Listeners</li>
		<li>Animate Elements</li>
		<li>Add Effects</li>
		<li>Make HTTP Requests(AJAX)</li>
	</ul>
	
</p>

<P>Ww can take a look at <a href="https://api.jquery.com/">jQuery's API docs</a> and see that it comes with a tonne of methods. </P>

<h1>When to use jQuery</h1>
<p>There are times when jQuery is relevant and most of the time plain JavaScript is fine. The website <a href="http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/">You Might Not Need jQuery</a>, demonstrates that everything we can do with jQuery, we can do without it. A lot of jQeury is similar to plain JavaScript.</p>
<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Reasons to use jQuery</th>
		<th>Reasons to NOT use jQuery</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>It fixes "broken" DOM API - jQuery makes the whole DOM API quicker and easier to use</td>
		<td>The DOM API is no longer "broken" - a while ago the DOM selection process was broken because we didn't have things like querySelector and querySelectorAll.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Brevity and Clarity - it makes the code clearer and shorter </td>
		<td>jQuery doesnt do anything that you cannot do on your own.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Ease of Use</td>
		<td>It's an unnecessary dependency.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Cross-Browser Support - it will take care of differences in properties that work in different browsers, such as IE9, IE8, etc.</td>
		<td>Performance - If someone isn't familiar with jQuery or the source code of jQuery</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>AJAX</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>A lot of people use jQuery - a lot of jobs I have been looking at require jQuery knowledge and experience.</td>
		<td>However, alot of people are also moving away from jQuery</td>
	</tr>

</table>

<h1>What is Vanilla JavaScript?</h1>

<p>Plain Javascript or Vanilla JavaScript just refers to writing JavaScript without jQuery.</p>

<h1>jQuery Files</h1>

<p>When downloading jQuery files, best practice is to make sure to put them in a seperate 'lib' folder so that we can differentiate between a JavaScript library and our own JavaScript files. </p>

<p>We can also use a CDN (Content Distributed Network) version of jQuery. This is a way of grabbign a file from online without having to downoad it to your computer. </p>

<h1>jQuery Selectors</h1>

<p>We can select elements with the dollar sign - $("element")[number goes here]. It works like querySelectorAll in Vanilla JavaScript.  We can use .css() to style elements. Let's give it a go below.</p>

<h1>jQuery Demo</h1>

<h2>Favourite Animals</h2>
<ul>
	<li id="adorable">Tortoise</li>
	<li>Dog</li>
	<li>Monkey <a href="https://www.livescience.com/topics/monkey">Monkey Info</a></li>
</ul>

<p>We can also use the example below, so we dont have to determine the index of each element.</p>
<pre>
$("h1").each(function(){
 console.log(this);
});
</pre>

<h1>Manipulating Style</h1>
<p>The .css() method is jQuery's interface for style. .css(property, value)</p>
<p>We can select elements with id "special" abd give it a border, like in the example below</p>
<p>$("#special").css("border", "2px solid red")</p>

<p>Or, we can also pass in an an object with styles</p>

<pre>
var styles = {
 backgroundColor: "pink",
 fontWeight: "bold"
};

$("#special").css(styles);
</pre>

</body>
</html>
